for children born in Gaza Israeli
occupation and Wars have been unsparing
and Relentless let's take a look now at
what an average 16-year-old has endured
in their
lifetime at Birth an Israeli Land Air
and sea blockade was affected has
affected every aspect of his or her life
from food to health and education at the
age of two the child would have lived
through 23 days of devastating air and
ground attacks nearly 1,400 Palestinians
were killed during Israel's uh Israel's
operation castled 320 of them were
children in 2012 when the child was 5
years old they would have survived an
8-day assault that killed more than 80
people most of them women and children
at age seven the child would have
endured a 50-day Israeli Onslaught at
least 2310 Palestinians were killed in
2014 551 of them children as a young
teen teenager he or she would have
witnessed the aftermath of Israeli
attacks that lasted 11 days 260
Palestinians were killed then 67 were
children and now Another War on Gaza
this one far worse than any other at age
16 today an average Palestinian child is
living through what's been described as
genocide 60 days of war in which more
than
16,24 people have been killed more than
7,112 of them
children now Israel has flattened gaza's
once thriving towns and cities one of
the world's most densely populated areas
has been reduced to Rubble here's a look
at the extent of the devastation more
than 60% of all the buildings and homes
across the Gaza Strip have been damaged
Israel has dropped thousands of tons of
bombs on Gaza today the strip is almost
uninhabitable about 1.9 million
Palestinians that's more than 85% of
gaza's population ation have been
uprooted from their homes due to Israeli
bombardment and forced to to Evac and
forced to leave with evacuation orders
more than a million Palestinians have
been Sheltering in schools and un
facilities but they too have come under
attack at least 69 schools have been
destroyed in the war so
far only nine of gaza's 35 hospitals are
functioning and only partially with tens
of thousands of injuries caused by
Israeli attacks and a rapid spread of
infe and diseases in overcrowded
shelters Gaza is now staring at a health
catastrophe well nla shawa is a Gaza
resident who recently fled to Egypt
she's with us live now from Cairo and
what on Earth is it like to be looking
in from Egypt at all that is happening
in the place that you come from the
place that you call
home yeah uh it's the difficult to
describe it honestly except that U it's
extremely hard and it's very painful and
uh at times I feel like um maybe it's
just better to die simply die there back
home but that thought of having kids and
having that option that opportunity to
to leave was also present in that moment
when we decided to leave and it's uh
it's just very hard and gets harder
every day tell us your story tell us how
you left how you came to be where you
are uh me and my husband and my
daughters we never thought of leaving we
never considered uh anything like that
we never thought that this would be
become any kind of reality we have been
living in Gaza all our lives we have
been witnessing all kinds of situations
and events 2021 the before everything
every every single escalation or War the
last time this time was a few days after
after after it started uh we received
people at home uh who were displaced
from uh from Gaza City and we hosted
them at our house in Gaza we live in
Gaza City in the western part of the
city and um a few days after we had to
evacuate for one night for since about
12: or 1:00 a.m. until 7 in the morning
because of bombing across the street
bombing of a building a residential
building we left in just five minutes
the house we all ran in the street we
went to a restaurant nearby we stayed
till the next day came back there were
some damages of the uh windows and doors
and the entrance and all the glass was
was broken Etc then we stayed for a bit
longer for another couple of days
actually with other friends and family
who were displaced with us then we had
that or order that came that we all
should evacuate Gaza City we left on
October
13 very
early to Central Gaza uh to a place that
that our family owns in central Gaza we
became 60 people into our
time we stayed
there we had hardly mattresses to sleep
on we were living by the day and uh we
were able to get water every day or
every other day we were rationalizing
everything Some Nights the kids would
not have uh dinner or or lunch uh some
days we would simply keep remaining of
uh of of the food of the rice or of uh
of the uh beans uh for for later to
reduce the quantities that we consume
now it's even worse from what I hear
from those who we we left unfortunately
I slept with my daughter in the car for
the entire
month and my husband slept outside along
with other three four men other four
five people were sleeping in their cars
as well and the rest were inside because
it was not a real house or a big house
like everyone was tacked next to each
other there were 60 20 of them
children and now my friends are telling
me and sending me pictures oh they are
on the sand they are intents on the sand
in the street in the open air with this
weather with their
children with no way to find the
bathroom with with no with no enough
food with just one or two items that
they can consume or find the situation
is is so horrible many of my friends
were injured they have small kids and
they were injured and a friend tell
tells me just yesterday that his sons
were injured and they were treated just
by people who they know not even
properly inside the hospital and they
cannot have any kind of medicine to
prevent inflammation for the injuries
trying to just clean the WB as appalling
as Unthinkable as conditions are now
Wars do eventually end you must imagine
a better time will come do
you I don't sadly I
don't why not it all feels like it's
ending because you see everything uh is
happening now the death the brutality
the the how ugly it is um and it's not
changing the the world is
watching and uh there seemed to be some
agreement to what's going on
I think um it's very clear looking at
the entire picture all around us
everyone is
watching no one is stopping
Israel
so well now it's a joint project we
fervently wish you and your
family the best and very much hope and
wish that you are able to return to
Gaza thank you for speaking to us to
thank you
well let's now let's now talk to Abdul
wahab hammad who is from North Gaza he's
been forced to relocate three times
since the start of the war first to the
center of Gaza then to Khan Yunis and
now to Rafa he joins us on the phone uh
from there thank you so much for
speaking to us uh this has been an
extraordinary Journey for you you can't
possibly have imagined such a thing
would happen to you and happen in the
space of two months
um thank you for having me on today uh
indeed and in the face of this
Relentless conflict in Gaza since
October the 7th my family and I residing
in the Border area of zimmo in the
northern part of Gaza we experienced
unrelenting cycle displacement and loss
indeed I've witnessed the hard wrenching
impact on my family and other families
as well who were forced to evacuate
multiple times navigating the journey
from the north to the South under a
constant threat arriving in the centr
Gaza in the C of Gaza we dispersed into
various homes for safety contending with
random Shilling eventually we had also
to evacuate one more time this time to
kanun which was declared as a safe
heaven as a safe Zone uh by the IDF a
couple of weeks ago uh now the IDF and
the military notices declar unit as a
compat
Zone promoting a proing another
evacuation to support safe areas this
recent evacuation orders from the IDF
have not only uh shattered the illusion
of designated safe areas but also
intensify the challenges faced by the by
the people in Gaza life has has be
become a constant struggle for safety
with the idea of dictating our movements
uh the struggle intensified with with
the new challenges with challenges of
severe water scarcity and extreme food
shortages in now in RA in a very tely
heavily populated refugee camp basic
necessities like food and water are scar
diseases are spreading particularly in
schools uh despite these circumstances
uh uh we we we uh we uh we hope uh that
this will end one day it's a nightmare
that we we never
never have
imagined
such and I think the right to safety and
basic necessities has been compromised
during this major escalation of military
hostilities leaving us as gazans in a
state of
vulnerabilities thank you let me ask you
I mean you have moved as we said there
successively from your home in the
center of Gaza down to kanun now you're
in far you've effectively reached the
furthest point in the south of the Gaza
Strip that you can go where where where
might you go next if the attacks follow
you all the way down there there are
talk of people trying to break through
the border into the
Sinai I mean what would you do if you
found that there was nowhere else to go
well as I previously said this recent
evacuation orders has
become elusive for for Palestinians
living in
Gaza nowh safe in Gaza with the areas of
civilians the heavily Den the areas of
civilians are being under attack uh we
don't know what's coming
next and to be honest the conflict has
not only reshaped the physical landscape
of Gaza but also has eroded the
foundational human values uh that should
unite us uh
in in times of difficulties and
adversity uh this must end and and the
international might ble actually to the
world and to the International Community
is to seize the aggression against the
civilians in Gaza the question of how
life has transformed during the war me
to emphasize the ethical framework and
the international commitment to humanit
to humanitarian values despite the moral
Decay resulting from the ongoing
conflict what happens in Gaza here is a
genocide uh it's really a genocide it's
an ethnic cleansing it's not acceptable
uh it's against International
humanitarian LW and it's it goes beyond
whatever whatsoever we we and whatever
we could have imagined yes thank you
okay Abdul wahab hammad from the north
of Gaza at the moment Sheltering with
his family all the way down in the south
in rafar our thoughts are with you and
our thanks to you for speaking to us